
Thank you for your interest in the program Naccess. If you have not
already, please complete the Confidentiality form and return it to
me, Simon Hubbard, at Manchester (for address see below). Please 
don't fax it, ordinary post or scanned PDF is fine - you don't have to
send it via expensive courier services !)

Once you have downloaded the file, you need to decrypt it. The key 
is "nac97". To decrypt, simply use one of the following:

The popular archiving utility RAR is probably the easiest and has password 
protection available. 

rar e -p"key" naccess.rar 

(no further unzipping is required)

crypt nac97 < naccess.tar.gz.enc > naccess.tar.gz

(or use mcrypt or des on the appropriate file if you don't have 
crypt. mcrypt is open source and available for most platforms)

mcrypt -d -k nac97 < naccess.tar.gz.nc > naccess.tar.gz

You may then uncompress and untar the file in the normal way via:

gzip -dc naccess.tar.gz | tar -xvf -

You should end up with a new subdirectory containing all the files, and
installation instructions you need. If you have any problems or
further questions, please email me at the address below, but please
try and make sure you have exhausted all possibilities before
asking me for help, as I don't really offer support. ie. please read
the latest README file (the one on the website at the following URL has
the most information, including some answers to a few common questions.)

http://www.bioinf.manchester.ac.uk/naccess/

I've also listed a few common problems, issues and queries below, taken from the website
README

common compilation problems
---------------------------
some modern Fortran compilers don't like my old	code - a common	problem	is
the output to the log file on fortran channel 4. e.g. write(4,'(a,i)') and lines like
this. A	simple fix is to comment them out with a 'C' in	the first column, or change them
to a generic format, write(4,*). The former means you don't get	the logfile output
from that line,	and the	latter means the format	is not quite so	pretty,	but in both
cases it should	all still work.

Relative accessibilities (greater than 100%?)
---------------------------------------------
Relative accessibilities are calculated for each amino acid in the protein
by expressing the various summed residue accessible surfaces as a percentage
of the that observed in a ALA-X-ALA tripeptide. The tripeptides were built
using the QUANTA molecular graphics package, in extended conformations, so
as to expose the central X residue in the tripeptide as much as would
normally be possible in a protein. Because of unusual bond angles, bond
lengths and distorted geometry in real proteins, these values can often
exceed 100% (especially for Proline where we used a real ala-pro-ala
tripeptide built from a real protein). Also, they will have very large
%asa values when the residues are next to a chain break, such as at the
N- or C-terminus of the protein (eg. the expectation is that they
will be in Ala-X-Ala tripeptides, and not X-Ala or Ala-X)

SOLVA_ERROR: max atoms per cube exceeded
----------------------------------------
Most of these sort of errors can be cured by increasing some
of the parameters in the accall.pars file, and then recompiling
the program. They are fairly self-explanatory and so I don't go through
them all here. However, the error above should not really happen
unless you are doing something odd. One common reason why the
"max atoms per cube" error is produced is users try to run 
Naccess on a PDB file from an NMR study which contains all
the solutions in an ensemble of structures - this can be 20,30,
40 or more very similar structures all laid on top of each 
other (usually with the same chain label). Naccess can't handle
this (and nor should it). The usual solution is to see if
there is a single "average" structure for this protein in RCSB
or to edit the file and just use the first structure from 
the ensembl. 

Best wishes

